# FPRT
Q1) What is Cryptography and what are the Encryption Methods?
Solution : In simple terms, the process of altering messages in a way that their meaning is hidden from an enemy or opponent who might seize them, is known as Cryptography.
Triple Data Encryption Standard (TripleDES)
Blowfish Encryption Algorithm
Twofish Encryption Algorithm
Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)
IDEA Encryption Algorithm
MD5 Encryption Algorithm
HMAC Encryption Algorithm
RSA Security


Q2) On entering a URL in a browser, explain the detailed procedure in which the request is handled by the browser and the result is obtained for the given search query?
Solution :
The browser checks the cache for a DNS record to find the corresponding IP address of typed url
If the requested URL is not in the cache, ISP’s DNS server initiates a DNS query to find the IP address of the server that hosts the given url
The browser initiates a TCP or HTTPS connection with the server.
The browser sends an HTTP (GET request) request to the web server.
The server handles the request and sends back a response.
The browser displays the HTML content (for HTML responses, which is the most common).

Q3) How will you create persistent connections between the server and the client? 
Solution : To maintain a persistent connection, TCP keep-alive packets are sent to prevent the connection from timing out. An open connection is faster for frequent data exchanges. Communications overhead is saved by leaving a connection open rather than opening and closing sessions for each request.

Q3) What is Multithreading? What is the difference between a thread and a process?
Solution :
A thread is a path which is followed during a program’s execution. Majority of programs written nowadays run as a single thread. Lets say, for example a program is not capable of reading keystrokes while making drawings. These tasks cannot be executed by the program at the same time. This problem can be solved through multitasking so that two or more tasks can be executed simultaneously.
Multitasking is of two types: Processor based and thread based. Processor based multitasking is totally managed by the OS, however multitasking through multithreading can be controlled by the programmer to some extent.
The concept of multithreading needs proper understanding of these two terms – a process and a thread. A process is a program being executed. A process can be further divided into independent units known as threads.
A thread is like a small light-weight process within a process. Or we can say a collection of threads is what is known as a process.




Q4) Explain Indexing in DBMS. 
Solution : Indexing is a data structure technique to efficiently retrieve records from the database files based on some attributes on which the indexing has been done. Indexing in database systems is similar to what we see in books. Indexing is defined based on its indexing attributes.
Primary Indexing
Primary Index is an ordered file which is fixed length size with two fields. The first field is the same as a primary key and the second, filed is pointed to that specific data block. In the primary Index, there is always one to one relationship between the entries in the index table.
The primary Indexing is also further divided into two types.
Dense Index
Sparse Index
Secondary Indexing
The secondary Index can be generated by a field which has a unique value for each record, and it should be a candidate key. It is also known as a non-clustering index.
This two-level database indexing technique is used to reduce the mapping size of the first level. For the first level, a large range of numbers is selected because of this; the mapping size always remains small.

Q5) What is normalization and denormalization and why do we need it?
Solution : Normalization is used to remove redundant data from the database and to store non-redundant and consistent data into it. Denormalization is used to combine multiple table data into one so that it can be queried quickly.
Significance 
Normalization 
In other words, the goal of data normalization is to reduce and even eliminate data redundancy, an important consideration for application developers because it is incredibly difficult to stores objects in a relational database that maintains the same information in several places.
Denormalization 
Denormalization is a strategy used on a previously-normalized database to increase performance. In computing, denormalization is the process of trying to improve the read performance of a database, at the expense of losing some write performance, by adding redundant copies of data or by grouping data.

Q6) Difference between INNER and OUTER JOIN.
Solution : Inner and outer joins combine rows from two or more tables into a single result using a join condition.  The join condition specifies how columns from each table are matched to one another.  In most cases, the aim is to find equal values between tables, and include those matches.
The most common case for this is when you’re matching the foreign key of one table to the primary key of another, such as when using an ID to look up a value.
Though both inner and outer joins include rows from both tables when the match condition is successful, they differ in how they handle a false match condition.
Inner joins don’t include non-matching rows; whereas, outer joins do include them.
Q7) What is Cache? Where does cache lie in an Operating System? Difference between Cache and HashMap. 
Solution : Cache memory is an extremely fast memory type that acts as a buffer between RAM and the CPU. It holds frequently requested data and instructions so that they are immediately available to the CPU when needed. Cache memory is used to reduce the average time to access data from the Main memory.

The cache memory is located very close to the CPU, either on the CPU chip itself or on the motherboard in the immediate vicinity of the CPU and connected by a dedicated data bus.

Q8) How will you analyze 'process out of memory exception' in your node js application? 
Solution : To solve this issue you need to run your application by increasing the memory limit by using the command --max-old-space-size. By default the memory limit of Node.js is 512 mb. Lets say I run the above code using the command node --max-old-space-size=512 example5.js, it will give me the same error - FATAL ERROR: CALL_AND_RETRY_LAST Allocation failed - process out of memory as shown below.

Now when I increase the memory and let's say run using the command node --max-old-space-size=1024 example5.js it will again give the same exception.

Again we will increase the memory and try to run at 2000 MB using the command node --max-old-space-size=2000 example5.js, this time we will not get any exception and the program will run.

Q9) If RAM size is 4GB, if 4 processes of size 2GB are launched! What happens?
Solution : no single process can ever use more than 2GB of memory, regardless of the physical memory installed or virtual memory allocated.
